



RATS                                                        Y. Deshpande
Internet-Draft                                                   Arm Ltd
Intended status: Informational                                  J. Zhang
Expires: 10 August 2026                                        H. Labiod
                                     Huawei Technologies France S.A.S.U.
                                                            H. Birkholtz
                                                          Fraunhofer SIT
                                                         6 February 2026


               Remote Attestation with Multiple Verifiers
               draft-deshpande-rats-multi-verifier-latest

Abstract

   IETF RATS Architecture, defines the key role of a Verifier.  In a
   complex system, this role needs to be performed by multiple Verfiers
   coordinating together to assess the full trustworthiness of an
   Attester.  This document focuses on various topological patterns for
   a multiple Verifier system.  It only covers the architectural aspects
   introduced by the Multi Verifier concept, which is neutral with
   regard to specific wire formats, encoding, transport mechanisms, or
   processing details.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/ietf-rats/draft-deshpande-multi-verifier.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 10 August 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Need for Multiple Verifiers
   3.  Reference Use Cases
     3.1.  Verification of Devices containing heterogenous components
     3.2.  Verification of Workloads operating in Confidential
           Computing environment
   4.  Conventions and Definitions
     4.1.  Glossary
   5.  Multi Verifier topological patterns
     5.1.  Hierarchical Pattern
       5.1.1.  Lead Verifier
       5.1.2.  Component Verifier
       5.1.3.  Trust Relationships
     5.2.  Cascaded Pattern
       5.2.1.  Trust Relationships
       5.2.2.  Verifiers
       5.2.3.  Relying Party and Verifiers
     5.3.  Hybrid Pattern
   6.  Freshness
   7.  Security Considerations
     7.1.  Adversarial Model
     7.2.  General Considerations
     7.3.  Security for Topological Patterns
       7.3.1.  Hierarchical Pattern
       7.3.2.  Cascaded Pattern
       7.3.3.  Security of the Hybrid Pattern
   8.  Privacy Considerations
   9.  IANA Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   References
     Normative References
     Informative References
   Contributors
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   A Verifier plays a central role in any Remote Attestation System.  A
   Verifier appraises the Attester and produces Attestation Results,
   which are essentially a verdict of attestation.  The results are
   consumed by the Relying Party to conclude the trustworthiness of the
   Attester, before making any critical decisions about the Attester,
   such as admitting it to the network or releasing confidential
   resources to it.  Attesters can come in wide varieties of shape and
   form.  For example Attesters can be endpoints (edge or IoT devices)
   or complex machines in the cloud.  Composite Attester Section 4.1,
   generate Evidence that consists of multiple parts.  For example, in
   data center servers, it is not uncommon for separate attesting
   environments (AE) to serve a subsection of the entire machine.  One
   AE might measure and attest to what was booted on the main CPU, while
   another AE might measure and attest to what was booted machine's GPU.
   Throughout this document we use the term Component Attester
   Section 4.1 to address the sub-entity or an individual layer which
   produces its own Evidence in a Composite Attester system.

   In a Composite Attester system, it may not be possible for a single
   Verifier to possess all the capabilities or information required to
   conduct a complete appraisal of the Attester.  Please refer to
   Section 2 for motivation of this document.  Multiple Verifiers need
   to collaborate to reach a conclusion on the appraisal and produce the
   Attestation Results.

   This document describes various topological patterns of multiple
   Verifiers that work in a coordinated manner to conduct appraisal of a
   Composite Attester to produce an Attestation Results.

2.  Need for Multiple Verifiers

   To conduct the task of Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires:

   1.  Reference Values from trusted supply chain actors producing,
       aggregating, or administering Attesters (Reference Value
       Providers)

   2.  Endorsements from trusted supply chain actors producing,
       certifying, or compliance checking Attesters (Endorsers)

   3.  Appraisal Policy for Evidence, which is under the control of the
       Verifier Owner

   The Verifier inputs listed above are linked to the shape of the
   Attesters.  Typically, Composite Attesters come with a varying degree
   of heterogeneity of Evidence formats, depending on the type of
   Attesting Environments that come with each Component Attester, for
   example, CPU variants or GPU/FPGA variants.  When conducting Evidence
   appraisal for a Composite Attester, the following challenges remain:

   1.  An Attester's composition can change over time based on market
       requirements and availability (e.g., a set of racks in a data
       center gets thousands of new FPGAs).  It is highly unlikely that
       there is always one appropriate Verifier that satisfies all the
       requirements that a complex and changing Composite Attesters
       imposes.  It may not be economically viable to build and maintain
       such a degree of complexity in a single Verifier.

   2.  A Verifier Owner may have an Appraisal Policy for Evidence of a
       Component Attester that is internal to them and which they may
       choose not to reveal to a “monolithic" Verifier.

   3.  A Reference Values Provider may not wish to reveal its Reference
       Values or their lifecycle to a monolithic Verifier.

   4.  There may not be a single actor in the ecosystem that can stand
       up and take ownership of verifying every Component Attester due
       to a lack of knowledge, complexity, regulations or associated
       cost.

   5.  The mix today is a combination of Verifier services provided by
       component manufacturers, Verifiers provided by integrators, and
       Verifiers under local authority (i.e., close to the attester).
       Rarely is it just one of these.

3.  Reference Use Cases

   This section covers generic use cases that demonstrate the
   applicability of Multi Verifier, regardless of specific solutions.
   Its purpose is to motivate various aspects of the architecture
   presented in this document.  There are many other use cases; this
   document does not contain a complete list.

3.1.  Verification of Devices containing heterogenous components

   A device may contain a central processing unit (CPU), as well as
   heterogeneous acceleration components (such as GPUs, NPUs and TPUs)
   from different suppliers.

   These components can be used to speed up processing or assist with AI
   inference.  Trustworthiness assessment of the device requires trust
   in all of these components.  However, due to business concerns such
   as scalability, complexity and cost of infrastructure, the Verifier
   for each type of component may be deployed separately by each vendor.

   When these Verifiers operate together, they must interact with each
   other, understand the topology and interoperate using standardised
   protocols.  For instance, they may need to exchange partial Evidence
   relating to the relevant component or partial Attestation Results for
   it.

   Attester: A Device having multiple components

   Relying Party: An entity which is making trust decisions for such an
   Attester

3.2.  Verification of Workloads operating in Confidential Computing
      environment

   As organisations move more workloads into untrusted or shared
   environments, Confidential Computing is becoming increasingly
   important.  In such a system, an application or workload (which could
   be an AI model, database process or financial service, for example)
   is executed inside a TEE-protected virtual machine (VM).  When the
   workload starts, the TEE can generate a cryptographic attestation
   report providing:

   1.  The workload is running on a platform with a known state.

   2.  The workload is running the correct application.

   The platform is often built by an independent TEE vendor, while the
   workloads are deployed by workload owners from different parts of the
   supply chain.

   Verification of Attestation for such a system requires independent,
   yet mutually coordinated, verification of: Platform claims appraised
   by a Platform Verifier and Workload claims appraised by a Workload
   Verifier.

   Attester: A layered Attester containing a platform and a workload
   running in a CC environment

   Relying Party: An entity which is making trust decisions, such as a
   key release to a workload

4.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses terms and concepts defined by the RATS
   architecture.  For a complete glossary, see Section 4 of [RFC9334].

   Specifically this document heavily uses the terms Layered Attester
   Section 3.2 of [RFC9334] and Composite Device Section 3.3 of
   [RFC9334]

4.1.  Glossary

   This document uses the following terms:

   Composite Attester:  A Composite Attester is either a Composite
      Device or a Layered Attester or any composition involving a
      combination of one or more Composite Devices or Layered Attesters.

   Component Attester:  A Component Attester is a single Attester of a
      Composite Attester.  For this document, a Component Attester is an
      entity which produces a single Evidence which can be appraised by
      a Component Verifier.

   Composite Evidence:  Evidence produced by a Composite Attester.  Also
      referred to as CE in the document.

   Partial Evidence:  It is an extract from a Composite Evidence.  It
      consists of at least one or more Component Evidence.  Also
      referred to as PE in the document.

   Lead Verifier:  A Verifier which acts as a main Verifier to receive
      Composite Evidence from a Composite Attester in a Hierarchical
      pattern Section 5.1.  Also referred to as LV in the document.

   Component Verifier:  A Verifier which is responsible for the
      Verification of one single component or a layer.  Also referred to
      as CV in the document.

   Partial Attestation Results:  Attestation Results produced by a
      Component Verifier, which contains partial results from atleast
      one or more Component Attesters.

   Aggregated Attestation Results:  An Aggregated Attestation Results
      (AAR) refers to a collection of Attestation Results produced upon
      completion of appraisal of a Composite Attester.

5.  Multi Verifier topological patterns

   A Composite Attester has multiple Component Attesters.  Each Attester
   requires a different set of Verifiers.  Hence multiple Verifiers
   collaborate to appraise a Composite Attester.

5.1.  Hierarchical Pattern

   Figure below shows the block diagram of a Hierarchical Pattern.

                                    PE_1               .------------.
                                  .------------------->|            |
                                  |                    | Verifier 1 |
                                  |      .-------------+            |
                                  |      |       PAR_1 '------------'
                                  |      v                  ...
   .---------------. CE      .----+----------. PE_i    .------------.
   |               +-------->|               +-------->|            |
   | Attester / RP |         | Lead Verifier |         | Verifier i |
   |               |<--------+               |<--------+            |
   '---------------'     AAR '----+----------'   PAR_i '------------'
                                  |      ^                  ...
                                  |      |       PAR_n .------------.
                                  |      '-------------+            |
                                  |                    | Verifier n |
                                  '------------------->|            |
                                    PE_n               '------------'
   Legend:
   - CE: Composite Evidence
   - AAR: Aggregated Attestation Results
   - PE_i: Partial Evidence of i-th Component Attester
   - PAR: Partial Attestation Results

                       Figure 1: Hierarchical Pattern

   The following sub-sections describe the various roles that exist in
   this pattern.

5.1.1.  Lead Verifier

   In this topological pattern, there is an Entity known as Lead
   Verifier.

   Lead Verifier is the central entity in communication with the
   Attester (directly in passport model or indirectly via the Relying
   Party in background-check model).  It receives Attestation Evidence
   from a Composite Attester.  If the Composite Attestation Evidence is
   signed, then it validates the integrity of the Evidence by validating
   the signature.  If signature verification fails, the Verification is
   terminated.  Otherwise it performs the following steps.

   *  Lead Verifier has the required knowledge to break down the
      Composite Evidence into Partial Evidence.  It decodes the
      Composite Evidence to extract the Component Attesters Evidence.
      This may lead to "N" Partial Evidence, one for each Component
      Attester.

   *  Lead Verifier delegates each Partial Evidence to its own Component
      Verifier (CV) and receives Component Attester Attestation Results
      also known as Partial Attestation Results after successful
      Appraisal of Evidence.  There are many protocols to determine how
      a Lead Verifier can select the Component Verifiers.  This document
      does not mandate any specific protocol for determining the
      Component Verifiers

   *  Once the Lead Verifier receives Partial Attestation Results from
      all the Verifiers, it combines the results from each Verifier to
      construct an Aggregated Attestation Results (AAR).  The Lead
      verifier may apply its own policies and also add extra claims as
      part of its appraisal.

   *  Lead Verifier conveys the AAR to the Attester (in Passport model)
      or to the Relying Party (in background check model).

   The overall verdict may be dependent on the Appraisal Policy of the
   Lead Verifier.

   In certain topologies, it is possible that only the Composite
   Evidence is signed to provide the overall integrity, while the
   Partial Evidence (example PE_1) is not protected.  In such cases, the
   Lead Verifer upon processing of Composite Evidence may wrap the
   Partial Evidence (example PE_1) in a signed Conceptual Message
   Wrapper (CMW), and send it to each Verifier (example Verifier 1).

5.1.2.  Component Verifier

   The role of a Component Verifier is to receive Partial Evidence from
   the Lead Verifier and produce Partial Attestation Results to the Lead
   Verifier.

5.1.3.  Trust Relationships

   In this topology the Lead Verifier is fully trusted by Component
   Verifiers (example Verifier 1).  Each Component Verifiers are
   provisioned with the Trust Anchors (see [RFC6024]) for the Lead
   Verifier.

   Also, each of the Component Verifier is fully trusted by the Lead
   Verifier.  Lead Verifier is provisioned with the Trust Anchors (see
   [RFC6024]) for Verifier 1..N.

5.2.  Cascaded Pattern

   Figure below shows the block diagram of a Cascaded Pattern.

                        .-----.            .-----.               .-----.
                        |  V  |            |  V  |               |  V  |
                        |  e  |            |  e  |               |  e  |
.---------------. CE    |  r  | CE, PAR_1  |  r  | CE, PAR_1..2  |  f  |
|               +------>|  i  +----------->|  i  +----- ... ---->|  i  |
| Attester / RP |       |  f  |            |  f  |               |  f  |
|               |<------+  i  |<-----------+  i  |<---- ... -----+  i  |
'---------------'   AAR |  e  |        AAR |  e  |  AAR=PAR_1..n |  e  |
                        |  r  |            |  r  |               |  r  |
                        |     |            |     |               |     |
                        |  1  |            |  2  |               |  n  |
                        '-----'            '-----'               '-----'

Legend:
- CE: Composite Evidence
- AAR: Aggregated Attestation Results
- PAR: Partial Attestation Results

                      Figure 2: Cascaded Pattern

   In this topological pattern, the Attestation Verification happens in
   sequence.  Verifiers are cascaded to perform the Attestation
   Appraisal.  Each Verifier in the chain has the knowledge to derive or
   extract the Partial Evidence, which it can appraise, from the
   Composite Evidence.

   Attester may send the Composite Evidence(CE) to any of the Verifier
   (directly in the passport model, or indirectly via the Relying Party
   in the background-check model).  The Verifier which processes the
   Composite Evidence, Verifies the signature on the Evidence, if
   present.  It extracts the Partial Evidence from the Composite
   Evidence, performs Appraisal of the Component Attester whose
   Reference Values and Endorsements are in its database.  Once the
   appraisal is complete, it forwards the Composite Evidence and Partial
   Attestation Results to the subsequent Verifier.

   The process is repeated, until the entire appraisal is complete.  The
   last Verifier, i.e. Verifier-N, completes its Appraisal of the
   Partial Evidence, that it can appraise.  It has now all the Partial
   Attestation Results and creates the Aggregated Attestation
   Results(AAR).  It returns the AAR to the N-1 Verifier (from where it
   received the Composite Evidence and Partial AR).  The process is
   repeated, i.e. AAR is returned in the chain until the Verifier, which
   recieved the initial Composite Evidence is reached.  At this point in
   time the Aggregated Attestation Results are signed and the AAR is
   sent to the Attester (in Passport Model) or Relying Party (in
   background check model).

   As shown in the picture, the Partial Attestation Results and
   Composite Evidence is transmitted to a chain of Verifier, till the
   Appraisal is complete.  Upon completion, the last Verifier in the
   chain combines the incoming Partial Attestation Results, combines the
   results from it own Evidence Appraisal and passes the Aggregated
   Attestation Results to the Verifier from which it receives Composite
   Evidence.

   There are many protocols to determine how a Verifier can select the
   next Verifier to route the CE and PAR.  This document does not
   mandate any specific protocol for determining the Verifiers in
   cascade.

5.2.1.  Trust Relationships

5.2.2.  Verifiers

   In the cascaded pattern, the communicating Verifiers fully trust each
   other.  Each Verifier has the trust anchor for the Verifier it is
   communicating to (i.e. either sending information or receiving
   information).  This prevents man in the middle attack for the Partial
   Attestation Results received by a Verifier or a Aggregated
   Attestation Results (AAR) which it receives in the return path.

5.2.3.  Relying Party and Verifiers

   In the cascaded pattern, the RP may communicate with any Verifier and
   thus receive its Attestation Results.  Hence RP fully trusts all the
   Verifiers.

5.3.  Hybrid Pattern

   In a particular deployment, there is a possibility that the two
   models presented above can be combined to produce a hybrid pattern.
   For example Verifier 2 in the Cascaded Pattern becomes the Lead
   Verifier for the remaining Verifers from 3, to N.

6.  Freshness

   The Verifier needs to ensure that the claims included in the Evidence
   reflect the latest state of the Attester.  As per RATS Architecture,
   the recommended freshness is ascertained using either Synchronised
   Clocks, Epoch IDs, or nonce, embedded in the Evidence.  In the case
   of Hierarchical Pattern, the Verification of Freshness should be
   checked by the Lead Verifier.

   In the Cascaded Pattern, the freshness is always checked by the first
   Verifier in communication with either the Attester (Passport Model)
   or Relying Party (Background Check Model).

7.  Security Considerations

   The Verifier is not part of the Attester’s Trusted Computing Base
   (TCB), but acts as a critical component in the Relying Party’s trust
   decision chain.  Therefore, its security directly affects the
   reliability of the entire remote attestation process.  When multiple
   Verifiers coordinate to conduct an appraisal, this can increase the
   attack surface, depending on the system architecture and trust
   assumptions.

   Any mistake in the appraisal procedure conducted by one or more
   Verifiers could lead to severe security implications, such as
   incorrect Attestation Result of a component or a composition to the
   Relying party.  This section details the security threats and
   mitigation strategies specific to the multi-verifier topologies
   described in this document.  In addition to the considerations
   herein, Verifiers MUST follow the guidance detailed in the Security
   and Privacy considerations of a RATS Verifier as detailed in
   Section 11 of [I-D.draft-ietf-rats-corim] and the RATS Architecture
   Section 11 and Section 12 of [RFC9334].

7.1.  Adversarial Model

   The security analysis in this section assumes that attackers may:

   1.  Eavesdrop on any communication channel between Verifiers.

   2.  Inject, modify, replay, or delay messages traversing the network.

   3.  Compromise one or more Verifiers in the ecosystem, attempting to
       leak sensitive information (e.g., Evidence, Reference Values) or
       manipulate Attestation Results.

   4.  Perform Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) attacks between any two
       communicating entities.

   The system is designed to be resilient under the assumption that the
   cryptographic keys used for signing Evidence and Attestation Results
   (by authentic entities) are not compromised.

7.2.  General Considerations

   All communications between entities (Attester-Verifier, Verifier-
   Verifier, Verifier-RP) MUST be secured using mutually authenticated,
   confidential, and integrity-protected channels (e.g., TLS).

   It is recommended that any two verifiers establishing a communication
   channel perform mutual attestation before exchanging any attestation
   messages.

7.3.  Security for Topological Patterns

7.3.1.  Hierarchical Pattern

   The hierarchical pattern introduces a central trust entity, the Lead
   Verifier (LV).  The security of the entire system relies on the
   integrity and correct operation of the LV.

7.3.1.1.  Threats and Mitigations

7.3.1.1.1.  LV Compromise

   *Threat:* A compromised LV can orchestrate attacks, such as approving
   malicious attestations, wrongly aggregating attestation results or
   leaking sensitive evidence.  This is a single point of failure from a
   trust perspective.

   *Mitigation:* The LV MUST be hardened and operate and store its Keys
   in a secure environment.  Its operation SHOULD be auditable.
   Component Verifiers should be made available suitable trust anchors
   so that they can establish required trust in the authority of the LV.

7.3.1.1.2.  Communication Security (LV <-> CV)

   *Threat:* Eavesdropping or manipulation of evidence/results in
   transit.

   *Mitigation:* All communications between the LV and CVs MUST be
   mutually authenticated and confidential (e.g., using TLS with client
   authentication).  This ensures integrity, confidentiality, and
   authenticity of the messages exchanged between the Verifiers.

7.3.1.1.3.  Evidence Integrity and Origin Authentication (LV -> CV)

   *Threat:* The LV could forward manipulated evidence to a CV, or an
   attacker could inject fake evidence.

   *Mitigation:* The conceptual message containing the Partial Evidence
   MUST be integrity-protected and authenticated.  If the Partial
   Evidence is natively signed by the Component Attester at origin, the
   CV can verify it directly.  If the Partial Evidence lacks inherent
   signatures (e.g., in UCCS), the LV MUST sign the Partial Evidence
   using a key that the CV trusts.  This prevents any on-path attacker
   from altering the Partial Evidence.

7.3.1.1.4.  Results Integrity and Origin Authentication (CV -> LV)

   *Threat:* Partial Attestation Results could be manipulated in transit
   or forged by a malicious CV.

   *Mitigation:* Each Partial Attestation Result MUST be digitally
   signed by the CV.  LV should maintain a list of trust anchors for the
   CV's it communicates with.  The LV MUST validate the signature using
   the required trust anchor for the CV, before adding the Partial
   Attestation Results to the Aggregated Attestation Results.

7.3.1.1.5.  Replay Attacks

   *Threat:* An adversary Component Verifier replays old Evidence or
   Attestation Results.

   *Mitigation:* The LV is responsible for enforcing freshness (via
   nonces, epochs, or timestamps).  This freshness value MUST be
   propagated to CVs and back to the LV, to ensure final AR can be
   validated against the original challenge.

7.3.2.  Cascaded Pattern

   The cascaded pattern distributes trust but requires each Verifier in
   the chain to be trusted to correctly handle and forward Attestation
   messages.  The chain's security is only as strong as its weakest
   link.

7.3.2.1.  Threats and Mitigations

7.3.2.1.1.  Verifier Compromise

   *Threat:* Any compromised Verifier in the chain can block, delay, or
   manipulate the attestation process.  It can inject false partial
   results, drop evidence, or leak sensitive information.

   *Mitigation:* Relying Parties and Verifiers MUST be configured with
   strict trust policies defining the allowed paths and trusted
   Verifiers.  Operations should be logged for auditability.

7.3.2.1.2.  Communication Security

   *Threat:* Eavesdropping or manipulation of evidence and results
   between Verifiers.

   *Mitigation:* Each hop between Verifiers MUST be secured with
   mutually authenticated and confidential channels (e.g., TLS with
   client authentication).

7.3.2.1.3.  Evidence and Results Protection

   *Threat:* Lack of end-to-end security allows intermediate Verifiers
   to manipulate evidence or results that are not intended for them to
   appraise.

   *Mitigation:* End-to-end integrity protection is RECOMMENDED.  The
   Composite Evidence should be signed by the Attester.  Partial and
   Aggregated Attestation Results SHOULD be signed by the Verifier that
   generated them.  This allows subsequent Verifiers and the Relying
   Party to verify that results have not been tampered with by
   intermediate nodes.

7.3.2.1.4.  Replay Attacks

   *Threat:* An adversary replays old Evidence or Attestation Results.

   *Mitigation:* The first Verifier in the chain (the one receiving
   evidence from the Attester/RP) is responsible for enforcing freshness
   (via nonces, epochs, or timestamps) for the entire cascade.  This
   freshness value MUST be propagated with the Evidence and Results
   through the chain so the final AR can be validated against the
   original challenge.

7.3.3.  Security of the Hybrid Pattern

   As the hybrid pattern is the composition of hierarchical pattern and
   cascade pattern, all the threats and mitigations that are applicable
   for these two patterns are also applicable for the general hybrid
   pattern.

8.  Privacy Considerations

   The appraisal of a Composite Attester requires exchange of
   attestation related messages, for example, Partial Evidence and
   Partial Attestation Results, among multiple Verifiers.  This can
   potentially leak sensitive information about the Attester's
   configuration, identities and the nature of composition.

   However, when carefully designed, a multi-verifier architecture can
   actually mitigate these privacy concerns.  By distributing appraisal
   responsibilities and ensuring that no single Verifier has access to
   the full set of Evidence, the risk of comprehensive device profiling
   or tracking is reduced.

   Nonetheless, such benefits depend on strong implementation practices.

   *  Minimization: Attesters should only generate Evidence that is
      strictly necessary for the appraisal policy.  Verifiers should
      only request necessary claims.

   *  Confidentiality: Encryption should be used to prevent unauthorized
      parties (including other Verifiers in the hierarchy or cascade)
      from accessing sensitive Evidence.  This is crucial in multi-
      tenant environments.

   *  Policy Handling: Verifiers should be careful not to leak their
      internal appraisal policies (e.g., through error messages or
      timing side channels) when communicating with other Verifiers or
      Attesters, as this information could be exploited by an attacker
      to manipulate appraisal.

9.  IANA Considerations

Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Simon Frost and Usama Sardar for
   their reviews and suggestions.

References

Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Informative References

   [I-D.draft-ietf-rats-corim]
              Birkholz, H., Fossati, T., Deshpande, Y., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Concise Reference Integrity Manifest", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rats-corim-09, 20
              October 2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-ietf-rats-corim-09>.

   [RFC6024]  Reddy, R. and C. Wallace, "Trust Anchor Management
              Requirements", RFC 6024, DOI 10.17487/RFC6024, October
              2010, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6024>.

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, DOI 10.17487/RFC9334, January
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9334>.

Contributors

   Thomas Fossati
   Linaro
   Email: Thomas.Fossati@linaro.org


   Thanassis Giannetsos
   UBITECH Ltd.
   Email: agiannetsos@ubitech.eu


   Steven Bellock
   NVIDIA
   Email: sbellock@nvidia.com


   Ghada Arfaoui
   ORANGE
   Email: ghada.arfaoui@orange.com


Authors' Addresses

   Yogesh Deshpande
   Arm Ltd
   Email: yogesh.deshpande@arm.com


   Jun Zhang
   Huawei Technologies France S.A.S.U.
   Email: junzhang1@huawei.com


   Houda Labiod
   Huawei Technologies France S.A.S.U.
   Email: houda.labiod@huawei.com


   Henk Birkholtz
   Fraunhofer SIT
   Email: henk.birkholz@sit.fraunhofer.de
